index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---
{% include image.html
    img="assets/img/PerceptionExample.png"
    title="PerceptionExample"
    width="500"
    caption="From sensory perception to (in)action" %}

Whether we are crossing a street or evaluating the temperature of our drink our brain
constantly senses the environment, processes relevant information and hopefully produces
appropriate reactions to the environment. This feat relies on the coordinated interplay of many critical building blocks. Sensory 
organs such as our eyes or temperature receptors in our skin need to detect features of
our surroundings. This information has to be accurately relayed to our brain which then
integrates the sensory information to "make sense of it all".  
At the same time the meaning of sensory input is not absolute. A desirable temperature
for a cup of coffee is generally not considered appropriate for a glass of beer. Simiarly
strategies for crossing a street differ whether traffic runs on the right or left. The brain
therefore needs to take context into account when processing sensory cues.

It is my overall goal to understand how groups of neurons in the brain interact to encode
and interpret information about the world in order to generate appopriate behaviors.

## From sensory input to behavior in heat sensation
{% include image.html
    img="assets/data/HeatGradient.png"
    title="Heat Avoidance"
    width="700"
    caption="Heat avoidance by larval zebrafish in a gradient (arrowheads indicate wall-hugging behavior)" %}
In a heat gradient larval zebrafish will avoid areas of hot temperature and seek out cooler
regions. Staying within water of the right temperature is likely critical for survival
especially since zebrafish can't regulate their body temperature. To accomplish this task
larval zebrafish need to sense temperature and modulate their behavior in a way that drives
them away from heat.

Behavior is indeed modulated by temperature and one of the most striking
changes is a decrease in rest intervals between swims (interbout intervals). This leads to
increased activity in warmer regions driving fish into cooler waters.

The question then becomes how temperature influences swim initiation or more specifically:

1. Over what timescale does larval zebrafish sample temperature information?
2. If temperature changes over time how does this influence swim initiation?

The first question is related to accuracy and reaction time. The faster larval zebrafish
"completes a measurement" the faster it can react to changes in the environment. However,
measurements are rarely perfect and longer sampling times likely improve accuracy. Through
precise temperature stimulation and behavioral modeling in freely swimming larval zebrafish
we could establish that:

1. Larval zebrafish sample temperature over the fast timescale of 0.5 seconds before deciding
to initiate swims, allowing them to react quickly to changes in their environment.
2. Within this time interval both absolute temperature and perceived changes in heat
influence swimming.

The latter point effectively means that larval zebrafish react especially quickly to changes
in temperature followed by slight adaptation. This strategy may allow them to quickly try
and escape an area of higher temperature while conserving energy in case this is not
immediately possible.

Commit message:

Added figure to show modulation of inter-bout-intervals by temperature in the gradient.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---
{% include image.html
    img="assets/img/PerceptionExample.png"
    title="PerceptionExample"
    width="500"
    caption="From sensory perception to (in)action" %}

Whether we are crossing a street or evaluating the temperature of our drink our brain
constantly senses the environment, processes relevant information and hopefully produces
appropriate reactions to the environment. This feat relies on the coordinated interplay of many critical building blocks. Sensory 
organs such as our eyes or temperature receptors in our skin need to detect features of
our surroundings. This information has to be accurately relayed to our brain which then
integrates the sensory information to "make sense of it all".  
At the same time the meaning of sensory input is not absolute. A desirable temperature
for a cup of coffee is generally not considered appropriate for a glass of beer. Simiarly
strategies for crossing a street differ whether traffic runs on the right or left. The brain
therefore needs to take context into account when processing sensory cues.

It is my overall goal to understand how groups of neurons in the brain interact to encode
and interpret information about the world in order to generate appopriate behaviors.

## From sensory input to behavior in heat sensation
{% include image.html
    img="assets/data/HeatGradient.png"
    title="Heat Avoidance"
    width="700"
    caption="Heat avoidance by larval zebrafish in a gradient (arrowheads indicate wall-hugging behavior)" %}
In a heat gradient larval zebrafish will avoid areas of hot temperature and seek out cooler
regions. Staying within water of the right temperature is likely critical for survival
especially since zebrafish can't regulate their body temperature. To accomplish this task
larval zebrafish need to sense temperature and modulate their behavior in a way that drives
them away from heat.
{% include image.html
    img="assets/data/IBI_TempGradient.png"
    title="Interbout modulation"
    width="450"
    caption="Modulation of inter-bout-interval in the heat gradient" %}
Behavior is indeed modulated by temperature and one of the most striking
changes is a decrease in rest intervals between swims (inter-bout-intervals). This leads to
increased activity in warmer regions driving fish into cooler waters.

The question then becomes how temperature influences swim initiation or more specifically:

1. Over what timescale does larval zebrafish sample temperature information?
2. If temperature changes over time how does this influence swim initiation?

The first question is related to accuracy and reaction time. The faster larval zebrafish
"completes a measurement" the faster it can react to changes in the environment. However,
measurements are rarely perfect and longer sampling times likely improve accuracy. Through
precise temperature stimulation and behavioral modeling in freely swimming larval zebrafish
we could establish that:

1. Larval zebrafish sample temperature over the fast timescale of 0.5 seconds before deciding
to initiate swims, allowing them to react quickly to changes in their environment.
2. Within this time interval both absolute temperature and perceived changes in heat
influence swimming.

The latter point effectively means that larval zebrafish react especially quickly to changes
in temperature followed by slight adaptation. This strategy may allow them to quickly try
and escape an area of higher temperature while conserving energy in case this is not
immediately possible.
